DOLLAR OIL DEPENDENCE
                       Oil is priced in U.S. dollars as the U.S. dollar is the world's dominant reserve currency. This means oil-exporting nations receive dollars for their exports not their own currency which makes their national income dependent on dollar's value. If it falls, so does their government's revenue. As a result, most of the oil exporters peg their currencies to dollar. This helps them to avoid wide swings in inflation or deflation. 
                       The 1945 U.S.-Saudi Agreement created the petrodollar system. The petrodollar is an exchange of oil for USD between the countries. The purchasing power of petrodollar relies on the USD. If the USD falls, so does petrodollar too. The U.S. uses the power of petrodollars to enforce its foreign policy but many countries don't fight back. As they are afraid it would mean the collapse of the petrodollar system. 
                       In fact, US dollar devaluation creates several problems for the world oil industry. The US dollar is the currency of choice in global crude oil trade while consumers use local currencies to buy petroleum products. Oil producing countries receive their oil revenues in US dollars but use other currencies to buy goods and services from different nations.
                       Petrodollar recycling is the international spending or investment of a country's revenues from petroleum exports. Through this, the USD would be recycled back to America through contracts with U.S. companies.These petrodollar surpluses could be defined as the net USD earned from the sale of oil that are in excess of internal development needs.
                       The oil prices in the international oil markets has undergone tremendous changes since 1970. Before that, this price was fixed by the major international oil companies that operated the oil concessions in these countries. 
                       Middle Eastern countries, through their role in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), were at the center of the transformation of the market since they owned the bulk. By 1975, all of the oil-producing nations of OPEC had agreed to price their oil in dollars and to invest surplus oil proceeds in U.S. government debt securities in exchange for similar offers by the U.S.
                       The United States economy accounts for about 25% of the world economy measured at current exchange rates. So anything that affects the US dollar, the currency of that big economy, is certainly going to affect real events; and those factors that led to the US dollar weakening or strengthening can also lead to fluctuations of commodity prices, particularly oil prices.                    
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       


