        						GANITA Vs. FORMAL MATH
        
-> GANITA:       
        The Sanskrit term for mathematics is ganita. Ganita is Indian mathematics and was first introduced in connection with Astronomy. Many scholars including Aryabhata, Brahmagupta, Bhaskaracharya etc provided mathematical concepts & teachings in their works. The beginning on Indian Mathematics is in Aadi Granth Rigved.
        Since 500 B.C. many mathematical works were established in India. It is believed that most of the mathematical concepts including the decimal system, algebra, calculus, place value system, algorithm, square root, cube root etc were all originated in India. 
        Since the 5th century A.D., the geometric theories were known to the Indians. Indian mathematics also provides the definitions of sine and cosine, the concepts of addition, division, zero and infinite. The calculation techniques of ganita are used in the practical applications of commerce, science and engineering.
        
-> WESTERN MATH:       
        During ancient times, all the mathematical works were composed in Sanskrit which were then transmitted to the Middle East, China & Europe and developed furtherly. A brief account of algebra was provided in Vedas. When this was transmitted to Arabs, they termed it as Algebra. The works made by Indian mathematicians were translated by the Arabs. Thus, their works were known to the western world via Islamic mathematics.
        In the 6th century B.C. with Greek mathematics, the Ancient Greeks began a systematic study of mathematics. Greek mathematic s include the works of Thales, Pythagoras etc. Of them comes the thales theorem, pythagoreans etc. Also, Babylonians and Egyptians began using arithmetic, algebra and geometry for financial calculations, for building and construction, and for astronomy.
        During Hellenistic period, Greek mathematics merged with Egyptian and Babylonian mathematics to form Hellenistic mathematics, later on expanded to advanced levels. many mathematical discoveries & advancements in mathematics are made till date. 
         
